One of Aoi Ashito's biggest weaknesses is
how narrow the scope of his soccer is.
He views it all at the individual level.
"I will lead the team."
"I will get all the good chances."
It's always "I" this, or "I" that, or "I" the other.
A classic example of a player unable to
think beyond his own game. However...
The fundamental shape
in soccer is the triangle.
It takes at least three
players to do anything.
What? Is he trying to buy
time again because we scored?
Hey, shit heel! Ya seriously
wantin' me to snap your neck?!
In the 11-on-21 game,
you said something to us.
"Let's focus on the basics."
I did.
In that training game, all we were
doing was relying on numbers,
so your words resonated with us.
In actual fact, the point of the
exercise wasn't about numbers.
It was about whether we could play the game
properly, whatever the number of players.
And the fundamental shape
in soccer is the triangle.
That's been drilled into us
since we were juniors.
I see. So, back then, you were
trying to create a triangle with me.
However...
You initiated the move, but you didn't
understand the concept of the triangle.
You didn't even look at us.
And all because you wanted to score.
Isn't that right?
Since we were out of options, I signaled
for you to send the ball out to the wing.
But you passed it back to me instead.
And my pass got intercepted
and they countered.
You could've told me...
I did.
Huh?
I did tell you.
We always talk about the importance of
triangles in our daily training sessions.
You must've heard it said plenty of times.
Maybe you thought it was too simple and
didn't think any more on it. Or just maybe...
...you weren't interested to begin with.
If so, we had no chance.
Even if we'd laid it all out for you,
I doubt it would've stuck.
For us promoted players,
who clawed our way up to get here,
your attitude is impossible to understand,
and frankly, we didn't want to.
I'm pathetic.
Teach me how to play soccer!
I was prepared to learn the
game from scratch, but...
It didn't even occur to me to learn
from you guys. From my teammates.
In this youth team, in order to get better,
I need to absorb everything I see.
Thank you, Asari and Kuroda.
Thank you for teaching me soccer.
But how'd you do it?
How'd you improve so quickly?
Okay! The game's restarting.
Listen up, you guys!
Those three there! If we can contain
those three, their team won't function.
We have a one-goal lead!
Let's protect it with our lives!
All this time,
I thought soccer was about carrying
the ball at your feet towards the goal.
But that's not it at all.
You and two other players
nearby form a triangle.
So how do we slide this triangle into
the opposition's part of the field?
We tempt the other team towards us,
and that creates a space. A tiny gap.
One tip of the triangle
sneaks into that gap.
To put pressure on us and fill the space,
other players come across to cover.
Next, you pass the ball around the
triangle to move the other team.
The tiny gaps start to accumulate...
And create a big space
in the opposition's half!
Dammit!
A-Amazing. This is amazing!
If we keep this up,
how many goals can we score?
What... What is this?
Don't lose your man!
Asari!
Ah, I knew it.
Everyone moved the way
I envisioned they would.
Esperion B
Seikyo High
He rebuilt the triangle.
Anri? Yuma?
He replaced Kuroda with Ohtomo
as one tip of the triangle.
Yup. It sure was somethin'.
Ashito.
That was weird. I... feel weird.
It's like... I could see what they would all...
everyone on our team and theirs...
I could see... what they would all do next.
Ashito did great with that goal just now.
But it was Asari and Ohtomo
who combined to score.
Aoi made a dummy run from
left to right across the area,
as if the final pass from
Asari was going to him.
Seikyo High was wariest of
the three on the left wing,
so they sent two players
across to challenge him.
Ashito
But that was his plan.
Move
this guy
He lured those players towards him
to clear a path for Ohtomo's shot.
Ohtomo
On top of that, in order to draw
Asari's attention to Ohtomo,
he guided Asari's eyes to
Ohtomo as he ran past him.
It was subtle, but he pointed to him.
It's true. That boy controlled everything.
Just in this match alone, he's not only
grasped the concept of triangles in soccer,
he's built on it.
But how is that even possible?
We're in extra time! Last three minutes!
Wrench 'em open! Score one
more goal and we win!
Protect the goal! Even if we have to rough
'em up, we gotta keep the score tied!
When they started squabblin'
the day of the entrance ceremony,
Ashito drew somethin'
strange on the blackboard.
Only those who noticed
stayed behind after.
Akutsu
Pass
Me
Tachibana
Kuroda
Asari
Roan
Taira-san
Hey, this ain't accurate, is it?
The placement of the players
around me is correct, though.
Same with the ones around me.
That's a bit of a leap, don't you think?
Surely no one can perfectly memorize the
placement of every player on the field...
You're right. It's crazy talk.
But I've been thinkin'...
The speed of Ashito's progress is no joke.
His basics are laughable, but once he
gets somethin' down, he owns that skill.
He's able to put it to use, I mean.
No one masters a technique that fast.
Seems like he has some kind of...
...extraordinary instinctual ability.
Aoi is most likely able to predict
how players are going to move.
And the sheer scale of it...
Memorizing the placement
of the players on the field?
And now, he's "predicting" how
they'll move? Every single player?
You're a youth player, right? Don't bring
such illogical fantasies into soccer, 'kay?
Nope!
Is it illogical, though?
Well, anyway, all that
difficult stuff aside,
I've been excited 'bout Ashito
ever since I saw him at the tryouts.
We're almost out of time.
But my brain isn't working anymore.
Throw-in!
Ashito!
Take it quickly!
'Cause I'm seeing all this weird stuff,
my head's getting fuzzy...
Oh, excuse me. The ball.
Ah, dammit!
They're bringing on subs to eat up as much time
as they can. They're totally going for the draw.
Just make the substitution already, you—
There's no time left.
Maybe just enough for one more play.
You...
You need to calm down.
I'm...
I'm sorry.
I'll score a goal for you.
Aoi! I'll take the throw-in.
I need you up front. Go up front.
Triangles. Eye contact.
I learned a different side
to soccer, and it's awesome.
Use the players around you,
and let the team score.
But that's just where it starts.
I'm going to score.
I'll take it one step further and use my head.
Everyone on offense!
Don't look so anxious! Defend the goal!
Defend the goal? But how?
Do we stick more players on those three?
But we tried that already!
We ended up leaving that
midfielder unmarked and he scored.
Which means they can coordinate
a move with any player on the field!
Who do we pick up?
Who are we supposed to mark?
I'm coming for you!
He's the one who started this. His play
suddenly changed and everything went south!
We should have taken him out sooner!
Asari!
Play on!
Don't get drawn out! Stay back!
Their tactic is to draw you out,
so stay put in front of the goal!
All I need to do... is bring myself.
All I need to do is bring myself.
Today was... so much fun.
The right side's totally open.
Yes, it is.
How come no one's going over there?
It's clear to us because
we're seeing it from above.
The view at ground level is very limited.
So don't be mad at the players.
Isn't it like a dream, being able to see and
know where the players are from above,
as if you're a bird in flight,
circling over the field?
But it's not a dream.
It's rare, but there are players in
the world who can do precisely that.
Esperion B
Seikyo High
Nice one!
He is indeed interesting.
Isn't he just?
Akutsu never talks about other players,
but he mentioned this guy, so I was intrigued.
Meal Plan
\h\h\h\h\hFor July
Interesting.
The most interesting part is he seems
to have no idea about his abilities.
Seikyo High was pathetic. Too wary
and obsessed with defending deep.
They didn't address the space that
opened up for mid-range shots.
But no one could've guessed how much
they'd up their game in the second half.
Quite a feat.
Well, this is rare.
You complimenting someone, I mean.
Black King
BBQ
m 0 0 l 100 0 101 105 2 100
m 50 0 b 100 0 100 100 50 100 b 0 100 0 0 50 0
Korean BBQ Ribs
Skirt steak
Offal
Tongue with Salt
Okay, so, uh, all of you players
on Esperion Youth's B team...
Your win against Seikyo High yesterday...
...deserves congratulations!
The A team also won in Aomori prefecture.
They're on their way back now.
But feeling that the B team should
be free to celebrate without them,
Kaido Electric is hosting
this victory celebration party!
All right!
Thank you, our main sponsor!
Okay, all of you! Eat up!
Wow!
I-I-It's so tender!
The moment you bite into it, it just melts!
And at the same time, the juices spread—
All-You-Can-Eat\h!!
Just shut up and eat!
That's all wrong!
What's all wrong, Hana?
Grilling can make or break meat!
Korean BBQ ribs have lots of fat.
Grill it right so it tastes better,
and is gentler on your stomach!
Wh-What did you say?!
The so-called "8:2 rule." Grill one side
about 80%, the other about 20%.
It gives it a nice, crisp texture.
Oh, uh... Sorry. Go ahead and enjoy.
I'm an outsider here.
Nah, you're the manager's sister,
so you're far from being an outsider.
Kuroda, you know Hana?
She's been helping us out since
we were on the junior youth team.
We're in the same grade, so the
promoted players all know her.
Oh, is that so? Then you should come
watch more of our games, Hana.
We'll win next time, too!
Anyway, Asari, you wanted to say
something to Aoi and the others, right?
The...
The day of the opening ceremony...
I might have... m-might have gone...
...too far. Please forget what I said.
Hm? Oh!
I wasn't there, but...
We grow by having heart-to-hearts like
that one! It's how we build our friendship!
Today's a new day,
so let's work hard together!
Ohtomo, you too.
Let's play soccer!
But, you know, Aoi-kun...
When we had that fight, there was
something you said that spoke to me.
Stop obsessing over being the one to score?
The moment a forward starts
thinking like that, he's done!
I liked that.
Maybe those of us promoted from junior youth
do think about soccer based only on theory.
But you're not bound by theories.
I think I can learn a lot from you.
Kuroda.
Wh-Whoa! Kuribayashi?!
Is he finally coming on?
Tosu
Tokyo
2nd
Half
High-schooler Kuribayashi Haruhisa makes his debut
This kid's a second-year in
high school. He's only 16.
Esperion Youth's hidden gem, Kuribayashi Haruhisa,
is making his debut on the J1 stage.
Our hardcore supporters all say,
"That Kuribayashi is something special."
Tokyo City Esperion's
Kuribayashi
Haruhisa
J.LEAGUE
J.League Debut Imminent for the Hidden Gem of Esperion's
Youth Player Conveyor Belt
In the first team
for the opening
game of the season
Highschooler aged 16
registered to play with the first team
They say he'll forge the future of
Japan's national team, not just Esperion's!
Look at how calm he is.
Such confidence in front of 20,000 people.
We're all excited to see him play.
Aoi.
I'm in your class. My name is Kaido Anri.
Kuribayashi enters the fray 29 minutes into
the second half with Esperion one down.
Would you like to try some image training?
How will they proceed from here?
Try to follow just Kuribayashi's movements.
Tosu
Tokyo
2nd
Half
He's a high school student, just like you.
Watch how he behaves surrounded by pros.
Picture in your mind what you'd be doing in
his place, as if it were you out on that field.
And if you wouldn't mind,
please describe to me what you see.
Next Episode
Turn
This is a work of fiction, and bears no relation to any actual persons, organizations, or names.
The next episode of Aoashi is: "Turn."